Docs external toc (#122)
TeachBooks/manual: book/features/external_toc.md

(teachbooks-package)=
# Sharing content between books in table of contents

```{admonition} User types
:class: tip
This page is useful for user type 3-5.
```

{bdg-secondary}`Python Package`

## Introduction
When creating books, you might want to reuse material from other people or from other books you made. In some cases you might even want to have the exact same material into your book. You could do so by manually copying material over. However, whenever the source material is updated, you have to do that again. As an alternative, you can use the underlying git system to refer to the source file directly. This allows you to pick a specific version, or keep the most up-to-date version of it. This pages explains how to do so directly in the table of contents using the TeachBooks package.

> Previously, this was implemented using [submodules] (../external/Nested-Books/README.md), but this implementation was more difficult to use. However, the approach using submodules allows to embed pages which: refer to content in the `_static` folder of the other book, include local images referenced with raw-HTML code, are part of a private book. Furthermore, if you'd like to be notified on updates of the other book, the approach using submodules allows notifications in any case, while the approach described on this page only allows for notifications by 'watching' the other book repository and requiring the other repo owner to release new version with 'releases'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, this was implemented using [submodules](../external/Nested-Books/README.md), but this implementation was more difficult to use. However, the approach using submodules allows to embed pages which: 
- refer to content in the `_static` folder of the other book.
- include local images referenced with raw-HTML code.
- are part of a private book.
- _automatically_ notify you upon changes in the source book using Github's "Dependabot".
These features are not incorporated in the new workflow yet.
```

## What does it do?

> This functionality, part of the [TeachBooks package](https://github.com/TeachBooks/TeachBooks) allows you to refer to `.ipynb` and `.md` files stored on public repositories. These files are then handles as if they were normal files in your book, leading to a the file as a page in your built book. To prevent issues it warns you if there's a mismatch in `requirements.txt`, combines `.bib`-files, merges plugins in `_config.yml` and checks licenses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This functionality, part of the [TeachBooks package](https://github.com/TeachBooks/TeachBooks) allows you to refer to `.ipynb`, `.md` and `.rst` files stored on public repositories. These files are then handles as if they were normal files in your book, leading to a the file as a page in your built book. To prevent issues it validates that the external content has a permissive license, automatically combines any `reference.bib` files, and warns you if there's a mismatch in `requirements.txt` or with plugins in `_config.yml`.
```

We should also link to the docs on https://teachbooks.io/TeachBooks/ once the PR is merged.

## Installation
To use this extenstion, follow these steps:

**Step 1: Install the Package**

Install the module `teachbooks` package using `pip`:
```

> pip install git+https://github.com/BSchilperoort/TeachBooks@external-git-content

Reviewer: Of course change this once https://github.com/TeachBooks/TeachBooks/pull/59 is merged (just leave this comment as a reminder).

Reviewer 2: done in commit below

```
    

> **Step 2: Add to `requirements.txt`**

Reviewer: This should just be setting the teachbooks version to be >= the one with the new external content feature.

Author: So `pip install teachbooks>=v1.0.0` @rlanzafame ?

Reviewer 2: the first release with external toc will be 0.2.0

```yaml
format: jb-book
root: .

parts:
  - caption: ...
    chapters:
    - file: ...
    .
    .
    .
    - external: <link to GitHub / GitLab source .md or .ipynb file>
    .
    .
    .
```

The link can be pointing to a file on a branch (which will take the most recent version of that file on the branch) or a commit or tag (which will take a specific version of the file). For example:
- `external: https://github.com/TeachBooks/manual/blob/release/book/intro.md` will take the most recent version of the intro page of this book on the release branch
- `external: https://github.com/TeachBooks/manual/blob/06d67e8a0110c94d9147ce07090656dedc7d0e64/README.md` will take the file during the state of a specific commit (06d67e8).
- `external: https://github.com/TeachBooks/manual/blob/v1.1.1/README.md` will take the file during the state of a specific tag (v1.1.1)

If you're building your book online in GitHub, the [deploy-book-workflow](../external/deploy-book-workflow/README.md) will deal with these files during the `teachbooks build` command. If you want to build the book locally, run the command `teachbooks build`.

> If the source file is from another book, the contents of the `requirements.txt`, `_config.yml` and `*.bib` file are merged to make sure the page has the same functionality as in the source repository. If this leads to compatibility issue, you'll be warned during the build. Furthermore, licenses of external books will be checked to avoid copyright issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the source file is from another book, the contents of the `requirements.txt`, `_config.yml` are checked for any missing/incompatible entries. If this leads to compatibility issue, you'll be warned during the build which will help you solve these dependencies or plugins manually by updating your main book's `_config.yml` and `requirements.txt`
Additionally, any `references.bib` files are merged into your main book's `references.bib` file, and the licenses of the external content are validated to allow for re-use. External content without a permissive license will result in an error to try to prevent any accidental copyright infringement.
```

```{admonition} User types
:class: tip
This page is useful for user type 3-5.
```

{bdg-secondary}`Python Package: teachbooks`

## Introduction
When creating books, you might want to reuse material from other people or from other books you made. In some cases you might even want to have the exact same material into your book. You could do so by manually copying material over. However, whenever the source material is updated, you have to do that again. As an alternative, you can use the underlying git system to refer to the source file directly. This allows you to pick a specific version, or keep the most up-to-date version of it. This pages explains how to do so directly in the table of contents using the TeachBooks package.

Previously, this was implemented using [submodules](../external/Nested-Books/README.md), but this implementation was more difficult to use. However, the approach using submodules allows to embed pages which: 
- refer to content in the `_static` folder of the other book.
- include local images referenced with raw-HTML code.
- are part of a private book.
- _automatically_ notify you upon changes in the source book using Github's "Dependabot".

> These features are not incorporated in the new workflow yet.

Reviewer 2: This should be updated once the workflow uses teachbooks>=0.2.0

Reviewer 2: reposted, since the next commit made this comment outdated

{bdg-secondary}`Python Package: teachbooks`

## Introduction

When creating books, you might want to reuse material from other people or from other books you made. In some cases you might even want to have the exact same material into your book. You could do so by manually copying material over. However, whenever the source material is updated, you have to do that again. As an alternative, you can use the underlying git system to refer to the source file directly. This allows you to pick a specific version, or keep the most up-to-date version of it. This pages explains how to do so directly in the table of contents using the **External Content** (or **External TOC**) feature which is part of the TeachBooks Python package.

Previously, this book feature was implemented using [submodules](../external/Nested-Books/README.md), but the implementation was more difficult to use. Despite this, submodules are still a widely used Git feature that can be very useful for book authors, so check out the [submodules page](../external/Nested-Books/README.md) to learn more, especially if the External TOC tool does not satisfy your needs.

> ```{warning}

Reviewer 2: this should be updated once the deploy book workflow uses `teachbooks>=0.2.0`.
@Tom-van-Woudenberg do you just test this by running it in a fork a few times?
I made an Issue here https://github.com/TeachBooks/manual/issues/130

Author: @rlanzafame, I don't understand what you mean? As soon as the external_toc thing is in main of taechbooks let's just directly publish it to a new version. After that, the deploy book workflow will make use of it.

Reviewer 2: it's not so simple:
- new books will use it as soon as it is released
- existing books will use it once the CI cache expires (is this after 1 week of not being used???)
- books not using our workflow don't have to worry about it
- unclear if anyone actually uses teachbooks to build books without our deploy-book-workflow, but this group would also be affected as they would be the most likely people to be building primarily locally. however, i think my last changes in PR 59 will prevent this being an issue

Author: I know all of that and I think we argee that we shouldn't publish it as long as it affects the previous behaviour. But there's no change in behaviour as long as there's no `external:` in the toc right?

Reviewer 2: Correct. At least for the use case of GitHub Actions!
